# Index your files with shell!
## 2016-03-04

I've been using nginx for sometime now, especially as it's configuration files
are much more /human/ friendly than Apache's, along with it being high
performance. Sadly one option has left me saddened at it's lack of
configuration - autoindex. My main gripe with it being that it's lacking the
option to show dotfiles, which I need to show .footprint and .md5sum files in
my [ports collection](/ports), also the output isn't fantastically pretty.
My solution to this is to generate the needed HTML with nothing but a shell
script. As I'm lazy, I added the following in my nginx.conf:

    add_before_body /html/head.html;
    add_after_body /html/foot.html;

This way I always have my header and footer showed on the page and I only have
to worry about generating the actual content, resulting in the following
piece of code:

    html() {
        cat 2> /dev/null > "index.html" << EOF
    <table>
    <tr class="header"><td><b>File</b></td><td><b>Last Modified</b></td><td><b>Size</b></td></tr>
    <tr><td></td></tr>
    <tr><td><a href=../>../</a></td></tr>
    EOF

        ls -A -1 | while IFS= read -r file; do
            test "$file" = "index.html" && continue
            date=$(du --time "$file" | awk '{print $2,$3}')
            size=$(du -hs "$file" | awk '{print $1}')

            test "$size" = "0" && size="-"

            cat 2> /dev/null >> "index.html" << EOF
    <tr><td><a href="${file}">${file}</a></td><td>${date}</td><td>${size}</td></tr>
    EOF
        done

        cat 2> /dev/null >> "index.html" << EOF
    </table>
    EOF
    }

    # generate html
    generate() {
        # generate main index.html using crux specific tools
        type crux 2>&1 > /dev/null && {

            rsync -aq /usr/ports/wild-crux-ports/* ./

            httpup-repgen && portspage . | sed '1,43d' | sed -n '/Generated by/q;p' >> index.html
            printf '%s\n' "<li><a href="/ports/wildefyr.git">Git Sync</a></li>" >> index.html
            printf '%s\n' "<li><a href="/ports/wildefyr.httpup">Httpup Sync</a></li>" >> index.html
        }

        for dir in */; do
            cd "$dir"
            html
            cd ../
        done
    }

    generate

I use the following table CSS to define the look of the table:

    table {
        min-width: 100%;
        color: #D7D7D7;
        font-size: 85%;
        font: monospace;
        box-shadow: 1px 1px 10px 1px #000;
        border-left: 5px solid #2E8B57;
        background-color: #111;
        text-align: left;
        padding-left: 5px;
        padding-right: 5px;
    }

Many thanks to dcat for his suggestions for these!

When I run `./ports.sh`, this will generate an index.html in each directory,
with anything that `ls -A -1` can find in that directory, along with a link to
the previous folder with the `../` reference. It's much more hackable too, as
I can now place any information in any format about the file I want!

# But wait! It gets better!

Now I want to get rid of autoindex completely for my [media](/media) folder
too, but now unlike my ports collection, where I only have to generate the
HTML when I copy new Pkgfiles I have over on my system, I need to generate the
HTML whenever I create or delete a file.

I use a similar script to the one above to create the HTML, but I also use
[wendy](http://git.z3bra.org/wendy/log.html), an event notifier that can be
used to detect changes to a folder or a file, then run a command. For example:

    wendy -m 768 -f ./media ./media.sh

Now when wendy detects a change in ./media, it'll run `media.sh` again to
regenerate the new HTML with the new file listed! Now I just run the above
command in my Makefile to start wendy up when I build the site. I also guess I
can finally say I generate all my HTML on my site with nothing but shell
scripts!

For reference, both the scripts and the Makefile is [available in my website
git repository](https://github.com/Wildefyr/fyrious.ninja).

Happy hacking!
